# LCSBottumUp
This project implements a longest common subsequence algorithm. This algorithm is for comparing two different sequences of characters, of any length, and finding the longest common subsequence from both strings, through using dynamic programming. Here, the "bottom-up" solution is used for printing the resulting subsequence. Involved are two arrays: one that represents the subsequence length at different subproblem lengths, and one that represents the arrows for directing the program which characters to print and which direction to recursively go through the printing function. The program accepts user input for the strings. Throughout the program are some comments that, when implemented, serve as testing code for making sure the algorithm is running correctly. Other comments just explain different stages of the program.
It is important to note that the "arrows" array has direction noted by numerical code. A "0" is a diagonal arrow, a "1" is an upwards arrow, and a "2" is a left sideways arrow. Also, both arrays are initialized with zeros. At each step of updating the arrays, the change in row values are printed. Both arrays have their first row and column filled with 0s for organization purposes (similar to the examples shown in class).
The final result is printed after inputting the two strings and each stage of the arrays are printed. Attached to this repository is both the general algorithm and the printed result of two different 6 character DNA sequences.
Also, view all other files in source for the easiest viewing of the printed arrays.
